LINDLEY, CIRCUIT JUDGE:
Plaintiffs appeal from a judgment for defendant entered at the close of a trial by the court without a jury. The complaint is in four counts: 1 and 2 charge an unlawful appropriation by defendant of plaintiffs’ trade secrets relating to the design and construction and selling and leasing of freight containers; 3 and 4 aver infringement of plaintiffs’ patents Nos. 2,457,841 and 2,457,842. . . .
In the early 1940s Leathem D. Smith, now deceased, began toying with an idea which, he believed, would greatly facilitate the ship and shore handling and transportation of cargoes. As he was primarily engaged in the shipbuilding business, it was quite natural that his thinking was chiefly concerned with water transportation and dock handling. Nevertheless his overall plan encompassed rail shipping as well. He envisioned construction of ships especially designed to carry their cargo in uniformly sized steel freight containers. These devices (which, it appears, were the crux of his idea) were: equipped with high doors at one end; large enough for a man to enter easily; weather and pilfer proof; and bore collapsible legs, which (1) served to lock them (a) to the deck of the ship by fitting into recesses in the deck, or (b) to each other, when stacked, by reason of receiving sockets located in the upper four corners of each container, and (2) allowed sufficient clearance between deck and container or container and container for the facile insertion of a fork of a lift tractor, and (3) were equipped with lifting eyelets, which, together with a specially designed hoist, made possible placement of the containers upon or removal from a ship, railroad car or truck, while filled with cargo.
The outer dimensions of the devices were such that they would fit compactly in standard gauge North American railroad cars, or narrow gauge South American trains, and in the holds of most water vessels.
[At the end of World War II, Smith’s company—Safeway Containers—had some success building and selling such containers.]
On June 23, 1946, Smith died in a sailing accident. The need for cash for inheritance tax purposes prompted his estate to survey his holdings for disposable assets. It was decided that the container business should be sold. Devices in process were completed but no work on new ones was started.
Defendant was interested in the Safeway container, primarily, it appears, for use by its subsidiary, the Union Barge Lines. In October 1946 it contacted Agwilines [one of Smith’s customers] seeking information. It watched a loading operation in which Agwilines used the box. At approximately the same time, defendant approached the shipbuilding company and inquired as to the possibility of purchase of a number of the containers. It was told to communicate with Cowan, plaintiffs’ eastern representative. This it did, and, on October 29, 1946, in Pittsburgh, Cowan met with defendant’s officials to discuss the proposed sale of [containers]. But, as negotiations progressed, defendant demonstrated an interest in the entire container development. Thus, what started as a meeting to discuss the purchase of individual containers ended in the possible foundation for a sale of the entire business.
Based upon this display of interest, Cowan sent detailed information to defendant concerning the business. This included: (1) patent applications for both the “knockdown” and “rigid” crates; (2) blue prints of both designs; (3) a miniature Safeway container; (4) letters of inquiry from possible users; (5) further correspondence with prospective users. In addition, defendant’s representatives journeyed to Sturgeon Bay, Wisconsin, the home of the shipbuilding company, and viewed the physical plant, inventory and manufacturing operation.
Plaintiffs quoted a price of $150,000 plus a royalty of $10 per unit. This was rejected. Subsequent offers of $100,000 and $75,000 with royalties of $10 per container were also rejected. Negotiations continued until January 30, 1947, at which time defendant finally rejected plaintiffs’ offer.
On January 31, 1947 defendant announced to Agwilines that it “intended to design and produce a shipping container of the widest possible utility” for “coastal steamship application . . . [and] use . . . on the inland rivers and . . . connecting highway and rail carriers.” Development of the project moved rapidly, so that by February 5, 1947 defendant had set up a stock order for a freight container which was designed, by use of plaintiffs’ patent applications, so as to avoid any claim of infringement. One differing feature was the use of skids and recesses running the length of the container, rather than legs and sockets as employed in plaintiffs’ design. However, Agwilines rejected this design, insisting on an adaptation of plaintiffs’ idea. In short defendant’s final product incorporated many, if not all, of the features of plaintiffs’ design. So conceived, it was accepted by the trade to the extent that, by March 1948, defendant had sold some 500 containers. Many of these sales were made to firms who had shown considerable prior interest in plaintiffs’ design and had been included in the prospective users disclosed to defendant.
One particular feature of defendant’s container differed from plaintiffs: its width was four inches less. As a result plaintiffs’ product became obsolete. Their container could not be used interchangeably with defendant’s; they ceased production.
Consequently the prospects of disposing of the entire operation vanished. The foregoing is the essence of plaintiffs’ cause of action. Stripped of surplusage, the averment is that defendant obtained, through a confidential relationship, knowledge of plaintiffs’ secret designs, plans and prospective customers, and then wrongfully breached that confidence by using the information to its own advantage and plaintiffs’ detriment.
[The court found that, notwithstanding certain disclosures of information during the operation of Safeway, plaintiffs’ information about how to design its containers remained a trade secret.]
(1) Was Defendant in a Position of Trust and Confidence at the Time of the Disclosure?
Mr. Justice Holmes once said that the existence of the confidential relationship is the “starting point” in a cause of action such as this. E.I. DuPont de Nemours Powder Co. v. Masland, 244 U.S. 100, 102 [1917]. While we take a slightly different tack, there is no doubt as to the importance of this element of plaintiffs’ case.
Certain it is that a non-confidential disclosure will not supply the basis for a law suit. Plaintiffs’ information is afforded protection because it is secret. Promiscuous disclosures quite naturally destroy the secrecy and the corresponding protection. But this is not true where a confidence has been reposed carrying with it communication of an idea.
It is clear that no express promise of trust was exacted from defendant. There is, however, the further question of whether one was implied from the relationship of the parties. Pennsylvania has not provided us with a decision precisely in point but Pressed Steel Car Co. v. Standard Car Co., 210 Pa. 464, 60 A. 4, furnishes abundant guideposts.
There plaintiff delivered its blue prints to customers in order that they might acquaint themselves more thoroughly with the railroad cars they were purchasing; from these customers, defendant obtained the drawings. In holding that the customers held the plans as a result of a confidence reposed in them by plaintiff, and that the confidence was breached by delivery of the blue prints to defendant, the court said, 60 A. at page 10:
“While there was no expressed restriction placed on the ownership of the prints, or any expressed limitation as to the use to which they were to be put, it is clear . . . that the purpose for which they were delivered by the plaintiff was understood by all parties.”
The quoted language is applicable and determinative. Here plaintiffs disclosed their design for one purpose, to enable defendant to appraise it with a view in mind of purchasing the business. There can be no question that defendant knew and understood this limited purpose. Trust was reposed in it by plaintiffs that the information thus transmitted would be accepted subject to that limitation. “[T]he first thing to be made sure of is that the defendant shall not fraudulently abuse the trust reposed in him. It is the usual incident of confidential relations. If there is any disadvantage in the fact that he knew the plaintiffs’ secrets, he must take the burden with the good.” E.I. DuPont de Nemours Powder Co. v. Masland, 244 U.S. 100,102.
Nor is it an adequate answer for defendant to say that the transactions with plaintiffs were at arm’s length. So, too, were the overall dealings between plaintiffs and defendants in Booth v. Stutz Motor Car Co., 7 Cir., 56 F.2d 962; Allen-Qualley Co. v. Shellmar Products Co., D.C., 31 F.2d 293, affirmed, 7 Cir., 36 F.2d 623 and Schavoir v. American Rebonded Leather Co., 104 Conn. 472, 133 A. 582. That fact does not detract from the conclusion that but for those very transactions defendant would not have learned, from plaintiffs, of the container design. The implied limitation on the use to be made of the information had its roots in the “arms-length” transaction.
(2) The Improper Use by Defendant of the Secret Information
Defendant’s own evidence discloses that it did not begin to design its container until after it had access to plaintiffs’ plans. Defendant’s engineers admittedly referred to plaintiffs’ patent applications, as they said, to avoid infringement. It is not disputed that, at the urging of Agwilines, defendant revised its proposed design to incorporate the folding leg and socket principles of plaintiffs’ containers. These evidentiary facts, together with the striking similarity between defendant’s and plaintiffs’ finished product, were more than enough to convict defendant of the improper use of the structural information obtained from plaintiffs.